For the last exercise in this chapter
we're going to use
nested 4 loops to build a histogram of the
set of grades.
The grades are going to come from the
grades.text file we've been working with.
So let me display that file for you again.
Entered the wrong command, there we go.
I've mixed the grades up a little bit.
They were in numeric order.
I've mixed them up, but they're the same
grades that we worked with before.
So what we want to do is loop through
the file, and for each grade create a
histogram.
Our histogram will be a series of
asterisks.
One asterisk for every five points of
a grade, because we can't really easily
display
100 or 93 asterisks on our screen so we're
gonna represent 5 points by 1 asterisk.
So let's get started with the program.
We're gonna call it Chap8ex2.py.
We're going to use a variable named bar as
the variable to hold the asterisks.
So we're gonna set it equal to empty
string.
Then our first 4 loop will loop through
the grades file, grades.text.
Then the 2nd loop is going to loop over a
range,
starting at 1, and going through the total
grade plus 1.
Again because we wanna be inclusive of the
actual number.
So if the grade is 93, we've got to go
into.
Grade plus one.
Then, the way we decide if we're going to
add a asterisk
to our bar is we perform a modulus on the
i value.
So i modulus 5 is equal to 0, in other
words, if i
is evenly divided by 5 then that means we
can add a star.
To our bar variable or an asterisk.
I like to say star, easier to say.
So that's what that line looks like right
there.
So when we've gone all the way through and
added
all the bars we need or all the stars we
need.
For our bar, then we're ready to print the
bar.
So we're gonna print the bar, and then we
also want to print
the grade out, by it so we can see what
the actual number is.
And the last thing we need to do is, we
need to reset the
bar variable to the empty strain, to begin
collecting the next set of asterisk's.
So let's save it, and we're gonna run it.
And there's our output.
So as you see, we've used a set of two for
loops to recreate the bar chart.
Here's the bar chart again.
And that will end this exercise, and that
ends this chapter on for loops.
We will look some of the other
data structures that we covered in this
chapter,
later in the course, when we present a
complete chapter on using lists,
dictionaries, and [UNKNOWN].